

Transcript of 2nd Session between Charles Balis, M.D. and Mr. Kester Langford, Tuesday, July 8, 1997 at 1:00pm.



               Mr. Langford:   Hello, Dr. Balis. 

                  Dr. Balis:   Hello, Mr. Langford. 

               Mr. Langford:   Dr. Balis, I never did ask you if you mind my calling you "Doc." 

                  Dr. Balis:   No, that's perfectly fine with me. Thanks for asking. 

               Mr. Langford:   I don't remember whether you called me Mr. Langford or Kester
                                last time, but I prefer Kester.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   I'd be glad to call you Kester. 

               Mr. Langford:   Well, I think we're off to a good start. 

                  Dr. Balis:   Good. 

               Mr. Langford:   I've brought some of my marks to show you but all of the images
                                are turned towards the wall as you can see. Still, having them
                                with me gives me a sense of safety. I'm glad that you suggested
                                that I bring them to show you. Everywhere I go, I end up
                                leaving a few marks, but I never know where I'm going to be
                                sleeping or staying from day to day sometimes. Wherever I've
                                stayed, people have been open to letting me leave some of my
                                marks with them. Some people even like to hang them up while
                                they're keeping them for me. I went to three different places
                                to bring these marks to you. Also, I felt a little stiff last
                                time with this artificial relationship that we are developing.
                                I'm glad that we can just relax and work things out.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   What are the things that we're working out? 

               Mr. Langford:   The name thing and being able to share my marks. I can't imagine
                                what you can learn from them to help me, but I'm open to just
                                about anything, as you well know. Are you ready to see them or
                                do you have some questions for me to answer?
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   Well, more the point, are you ready to show them to me? Or is
                                there a question that you would like to answer first?
                                

               Mr. Langford:   You're funny Doc. Sometimes you guys make things so complicated.
                                I don't know how this therapy thing works. Don't you have some
                                questions about my past or about my life...my parents? I'm just
                                trying to be a good patient so I can get some help.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   I don't have any stock questions if that's what you mean. This
                                is an organic process. My questions are suggested by what you
                                talk about--by what's important to you. In large part, my job
                                is to try to help you clarify issues which are important and
                                relevant to you.
                                

               Mr. Langford:   Whoa! That puts all the responsibility on me. Why do I need you? 

                  Dr. Balis:   It's ultimately up to you to decide if I play a meaningful part
                                in the process.
                                

               Mr. Langford:   I think that it's way too early to decide. You seem like a good
                                person with a good heart, and I like what you said about how
                                you see your job. But I do remember that last time you
                                mentioned you would give me some recommendations after you have
                                gathered enough information about me. That both encourages and
                                scares me.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   Oh? 

               Mr. Langford:   I was encouraged because I felt that you saw something in me
                                that gave you hope and that encouraged you about my ability to
                                break through and see the light at the end of the tunnel. But
                                as I mulled that over, I felt uncomfortable with the thought
                                that you could see something in me that I've had difficulty
                                seeing in myself, especially after such a short time. I began
                                to doubt that you saw anything and that you were just putting
                                me on, which in turn frightened the hell out of me for a while.
                                Whatever it takes to create something different for
                                myself--that awareness, that skill--I believe that will be
                                something that I'll have to develop over time. Of course, I'm
                                in a hurry. I may be way out, on the edge of the envelope, but
                                I know that to develop new habits takes a while. Of course I'm
                                looking for a quick fix, but I don't believe that one exists.
                                So, that's about it.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   Hmm. Well you covered a lot of ground there. It took a lot of
                                courage to be honest with me and I appreciate that. You're
                                right, there are no quick fixes. The idea of our sessions
                                together is that through our dialogue certain parts of your
                                life, your personality, and your emotions become clearer to
                                both of us. I may have misspoken if I led you to believe that I
                                would be examining you and then coming up with a plan. You're
                                the one that's going to come up with the plans and suggestions.
                                The more time we spend together, the more trust and
                                understanding we will develop. And it's the process of working
                                together which will illuminate the issues which are currently
                                troubling you.
                                

               Mr. Langford:   Doc, you really surprise me. I never expected you to respond so
                                honestly. How about we look at some of my marks?
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   It's your show. 

               Mr. Langford:   That's it really. It's my show. That's what I'm learning. I
                                painted this brushstroke with black ink on this 8 by 10 inch
                                piece of pure rag paper. You probably noticed that I didn't
                                sign it, yet. When someone wants to hang it up, we can discuss
                                the signature, the color, the placement. This brushstroke has
                                no preconceived meaning but it often symbolizes something when
                                someone buys it or hangs it up. For me, it's many things. It
                                represents time spent in a room painting and remembering my
                                feelings, the sense of release and relief. The whole process
                                symbolizes my own celebration of my own creative process. The
                                day that I remember really doing my first mark and being
                                totally aware that moment was the first time, I can remember
                                feeling free. Until that moment, I had felt trapped. I couldn't
                                seem to just relax and experience my own creative expression
                                without criticizing my way in and out of it. I was not a happy
                                camper.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   What else does it mean to you? 

               Mr. Langford:   It shows that I can express myself as a human being
                                artistically, creatively.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   That's a gift. 

               Mr. Langford:   I agree. But it comes with a price. It's not very popular or I'm
                                not a good promoter or both. I can't put it on anyone but
                                myself. I've done everything wrong. I don't write a diary like
                                Asimov and I can't paint worth a damn, traditionally speaking
                                only, of course, and most of my work is in black and white, and
                                I haven't contacted enough of the right kind of people. I've
                                just been having fun painting brushstrokes and drawing shapes,
                                and writing an occasional poem.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   How would you describe your emotions right now. 

               Mr. Langford:   Kind of bummed out. 

                  Dr. Balis:   What's going on? 

               Mr. Langford:   It's unpleasant. When I think about "reality" it sucks. I feel
                                bad because the thing that I love appears worthless to others.
                                It's not that there aren't people who appreciate what I do, but
                                they are so few and far between. Even $1,800 for a painting is
                                not a lot if it's only among a dozen sold over a period of 30
                                years. I've decided that I produce so little that the prices
                                must be high, so I recently went over to a friend's house and
                                told him that his 4' x 5' acrylic on canvas that he was hanging
                                in his living room now had a price tag of $35,000. I realized
                                then that things had changed and something extraordinary was
                                going to happen. You know it's really a fluke that I'm here,
                                don't you, Doc?
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   You mean, from SII? 

               Mr. Langford:   Yeah. But it's pretty interesting. I worked as a proof reader
                                off and on for several years, maybe five. Even though I haven't
                                worked in over six months, I'm still covered under some
                                residual insurance benefit.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   I'm losing your train of thought. I need to go back and connect
                                some of the things that you said. You told your friend to quote
                                a $35,000 price when someone asks about the painting. Therapy
                                is being paid for by the insurance company and you're unhappy
                                because you don't think enough people value your work. Does
                                that sum it up?
                                

               Mr. Langford:   Reality sucks. If I were a cobbler, I would have shoes to make,
                                sell, and repair. If I were a baker, I could bake fine breads
                                and pastries and earn that way. But I'm a mark maker and I
                                haven't made a place for myself that earns a decent
                                living--some kind of living, at least.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   Many artists in our society producing fine art never really earn
                                a living as artists.
                                

               Mr. Langford:   Thank you for saying that. In fact it's funny, but I was just
                                about to say how glad I was that you hadn't made that
                                particular generalization about artists in our society. But
                                then, when you said it, it felt like I was hearing it for the
                                first time, and I have to admit a distinct pleasure in having
                                you include what I do in your definition of "fine art."
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   Well, obviously I'm not an expert. But to me, what you do is
                                clearly fine art, and you are an artist. I realize that you're
                                still working on that one. What do you think is keeping you
                                from making the transition from "mark maker" to "artist?"
                                

               Mr. Langford:   Although it would give me pleasure, I don't have the gift that
                                lets me draw and paint according to the art school model of
                                what artists should be able to do. Most people think that if
                                you don't draw well, you're not an artist. I didn't go to art
                                school and all of the classes in life drawing and drawing and
                                painting methods that I have taken privately have not been as
                                much fun as when I'm alone expressing myself artistically and
                                creatively. I think that I have a right to my own creative
                                expression and that I should be able to sell it and make a
                                living.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   I don't know much about the art business, but making art is only
                                half of it. You also have to sell art.
                                

               Mr. Langford:   It's just another thing that I can feel bad about, because it's
                                been happening for thirty years. With regards to the business
                                of selling my art, does lazy ring a bell?
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   Yes it does. By choosing the word "lazy," you're subtly putting
                                yourself down. It's okay to move at your own pace. Now you're
                                considering picking up the pace with respect to the business of
                                selling art.
                                

               Mr. Langford:   I don't want to get too excited but this is sounding pretty
                                good. I really appreciate your statement about going at my own
                                pace. That's cool. Thank you for pointing out how subtly I can
                                put myself down out of habit. That's a mind blower. This is
                                getting more interesting all the time, Doctor Balis.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   What's the interesting part? 

               Mr. Langford:   Your ability to help me see how the words that I choose affect
                                how I feel. I won't be using the word lazy any more. Thank you.
                                It just occurred to me that if I were to make a list of people
                                to contact and get into the habit everyday of doing something
                                towards my goal of selling my paintings, then I would be
                                encouraging myself every day, in a way, don't you think?
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   It sounds probable. And it sounds constructive. 

               Mr. Langford:   Yes. When I focus on all the negative stuff, it gets me down.
                                Part of me believes that I don't have a right to be myself. I
                                know that can't be right. I want to turn things around for
                                myself because I feel great most of the time, but those lows
                                are killers. Anyway, right now I'm feeling very good because I
                                know what I'm going to do today and for the next week. I always
                                take a "let's see what happens" attitude. It gives me breathing
                                space. Realizing that making marks and the business of selling
                                my work are two different skills, I can proceed with new energy
                                and insight. That's amazing and so simple.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   You mentioned earlier that you write a poem now and then. Do you
                                have any poems with you that you'd be willing to share?
                                

               Mr. Langford:   Sure. But I have to warn you. My poems aren't like any others
                                that you've seen. First, they all have only seventeen syllables
                                and second they are not want-to-be Japanese Haiku. They are
                                sound poems of seventeen syllables.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   Do you have any with you? 

               Mr. Langford:   Well, I don't have any with me but I remember quite a few by
                                heart.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   Okay. 

               Mr. Langford:   The names of the poems are usually represented by their first
                                word. Ready? "Life slips by my dreams of jewels and leaves
                                shining pearls smiling wisdom."
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   Would you repeat that again, a little slower please. 

               Mr. Langford:   "Life slips by my dreams of jewels and leaves shining pearls
                                smiling wisdom."
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   You chose to read that poem first. Why? 

               Mr. Langford:   I wrote it 26 years ago. I remember what it's about even now.
                                It's a code to say that although I have not succeeded in
                                attaining riches, I have been showered with a gift of clarity
                                that both grounds me to what I think of as routine reality and
                                it also propels me beyond my own feelings of limitations. It is
                                truly a beautiful thing when wisdom visits you. And I'm not
                                being cute. I really mean it. I feel very fortunate to continue
                                to live in a way that promotes insight and wisdom at times.
                                It's another great reason to stay with the great fight of
                                learning how to live in a way that is meaningful and true to
                                oneself. I know that I'm unduly obsessed, but I know there's
                                some good in that and I don't want to leave that good behind. I
                                want to keep it with me.
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   That seems like a good place to end our session today, okay? 

               Mr. Langford:   This session was much different from what I expected. Today was
                                a pleasant surprise. I'm going to bring the marks that I
                                haven't shown you today to our next session with a couple more
                                poems, too. Would that be okay?
                                

                  Dr. Balis:   That will be fine, Kester. Is next week at this time still good
                                for you?
                                

               Mr. Langford:   Until the insurance runs out. I'll see you then. 

                  Dr. Balis:   Goodbye, then. 

               Mr. Langford:   Goodbye.
                                                           
