Transcript of 13th Session between Charles Balis, M.D. and
Ms. Sarah Wright, Monday, January 13, 1997 at 2:00 pm.

       Dr. Balis:   Hi Sarah. It's good to see you.

     Ms. Wright:    Hi Doc. It's good to be seen. I'm sorry
                    about canceling our appointment last
                    week.

       Dr. Balis:   It's okay. Was there anything wrong?

     Ms. Wright:    Five people, the flu, one bathroom.

       Dr. Balis:   I see. I hope everyone is better now.

     Ms. Wright:    Most everyone. Melissa is still home sick.
                    School started last week. She went two
                    days and has been in bed since.

       Dr. Balis:   Have you taken her to the doctor?

     Ms. Wright:    I called the doctor's office and they told
                    me it sounded like what everyone else
                    had. They called in a prescription for her,
                    so hopefully she'll be back on her feet
                    soon.

       Dr. Balis:   And what about you? How are you doing?

     Ms. Wright:    Other than still being kind of weak and
                    run down, I'm doing okay I guess. I think
                    I'm about to go through one of my down
                    periods, though. Not something to look
                    forward to.

       Dr. Balis:   How long has it been since your last down
                    period, Sarah?

     Ms. Wright:    Two maybe three months. It's hard to
                    remember sometimes.

       Dr. Balis:   When you have these episodes, do you
                    find that the Xanax helps?

     Ms. Wright:    Not much. Maybe a little. It's just so
                    difficult to tell. I wish I could be more
                    specific.

       Dr. Balis:   I would like to try an anti-depressant with
                    you Sarah, if you're agreeable.

     Ms. Wright:    You think I'm depressed? No, I don't think
                    so Doc. Depression is for people who live
                    in sanitariums with padded walls.

       Dr. Balis:   Sarah, you're stereotyping. Being
                    depressed doesn't mean that you're
                    insane.

     Ms. Wright:    Then what does it mean?
  Dr. Balis:   In your case, I suspect it's a chemical
               depression. Think of the spark plugs in a
               car. If they're all gummed up, they don't
               spark as they should. You can think of
               your brain working in a similar way. Your
               brain needs certain chemicals, they're
               called neuro transmitters, to help it
               regulate emotions, including anxiety and
               contentment. If the levels are low, those
               sparks don't fire properly in your brain.
               That, in turn, causes many of the
               symptoms that you've talked about before.

Ms. Wright:    Which symptoms?

  Dr. Balis:   Well, without looking at your entire
               transcript, I'd say...

Ms. Wright:    Being afraid in crowds? Noise levels
               seeming very high? Sitting on the floor
               crying? Not being able to complete a
               sentence? Are these the symptoms you're
               talking about??

  Dr. Balis:   Yes, exactly. Zoloft has shown to be a
               great help in treating patients with those
               types of symptoms. I had a talk with your
               cardiologist and he doesn't seem to think
               that it presents a problem.

Ms. Wright:    Well....I'm not crazy about having to take
               more pills, but if you think it may work, I'll
               give it a try.

  Dr. Balis:   Good. It may take a few weeks, but I think
               you'll see a great improvement in your
               emotional well-being.

Ms. Wright:    That would be wonderful, but I'm not
               going to hold my breath.

  Dr. Balis:   Let's just give it a try. If it doesn't work, no
               harm done, right?

Ms. Wright:    Okay, you're the doctor. Let's talk about
               something else, okay?

  Dr. Balis:   Sure. What would you like to talk about?

Ms. Wright:    I told you that I gave my resignation at
               work. My last day was supposed to be
               December 31st.

  Dr. Balis:   Supposed to be? You mean you're still
               working?

Ms. Wright:    Yes. They haven't found anyone to
               replace me yet, and I don't feel right about
               just walking out. They've had several ads
               in the paper but no one seems to fit the
               qualifications. I told them I'd stay until the
               end of the month, after that they're on
               their own. I suppose they'll have to go to
               temp service.

  Dr. Balis:   Are you still comfortable with your
               decision to quit your job?

Ms. Wright:    Oh yes. In fact, I'm looking forward to it.
               I'm hoping that once I'm home all day,
               Robby and I can...

  Dr. Balis:   Yes?
Ms. Wright:    Talk. Restore part of our relationship
               before he goes. I still have so many
               unresolved feelings towards him. Love,
               hate, anger. I'd hate for him to die without
               being able to work some of that out.

  Dr. Balis:   How is Robby's health these days?

Ms. Wright:    He still has mostly good days, but the bad
               ones really put him down. I try not to think
               too much about the reason behind it, you
               know? I try not to think AIDS everytime he
               coughs or sneezes. I've noticed though
               that he's starting to lose weight. He's
               already slim. I imagine by the end, there
               won't be anything left but skin and bones.

  Dr. Balis:   Yes, depending on quickly the disease
               progresses. As your psychiatrist, my
               primary concern is about you and how
               well you will be able to handle his death
               and dying.

Ms. Wright:    I try not to think about it. I mean, I'm not
               putting blinders on--I know he's dying, but
               I've accepted that. It just makes me sad.

  Dr. Balis:   Yes, it is a very sad situation. How is
               Robby's and Jeff's relationship these
               days?

Ms. Wright:    Well, sometimes I think Jeff makes up
               excuses not to spend time with Robby.

  Dr. Balis:   Really? I would like Jeff would want to
               spend as much time as possible with his
               dying lover.

Ms. Wright:    Yeah, you'd think so wouldn't you? I
               haven't figured it out yet, but I have a
               feeling now that Robby is safely tucked
               away and being taken care of, Jeff's
               feelings for Robby have waned
               somewhat.

  Dr. Balis:   You suspect Jeff isn't in love with Robby
               any longer?

Ms. Wright:    Well, I don't know about that. There's
               something odd there, I just can't put my
               finger on what it is. When Robby first
               moved in, Jeff spent nearly every minute
               he was home with Robby in his
               apartment. He wanted to take Robby with
               him on business trips, that sort of thing.
               Now Jeff hardly sees Robby. He'll call
               him, ask if he needs anything, they'll chat
               for a while, but that's it.

  Dr. Balis:   It does sound strange, considering Jeff
               begged you to let him move in.

Ms. Wright:    Yes, well time will tell, I suppose.

  Dr. Balis:   You're probably right. Do you mind talking
               about Glen today?

Ms. Wright:    Glen? Sure, what do you want to know?

  Dr. Balis:   Have you played The Game with him
               recently?
      Ms. Wright:     No, we haven't had a chance. He was
                      working the day shift last week, then I got
                      sick, so we haven't spoken in a while. Lisa
                      said that he's anxious to get together
                      again, though. I think she's more anxious
                      than he is! It still just blows me away to
                      think that Lisa gets off by hearing about
                      Glen having sex with other women. All this
                      time I've known her, she's never
                      mentioned a word about it!

         Dr. Balis:   Sometimes you can know a person your
                      whole life and still never know everything
                      about that person. Most people have a
                      certain mask they wear for others.
                      Perhaps Lisa thought you would think less
                      of her if she told you about her fetish.

      Ms. Wright:     Yes, we talked a little about that. She said
                      she didn't want me to lose respect for her.
                      I said, "Shit, Lisa, if you knew about some
                      of my fantasies, yours would seem tame!"

         Dr. Balis:   So you still believe you can continue The
                      Game with Glen and Lisa and not become
                      emotionally involved?

      Ms. Wright:     No problem. I mean Glen's a wonderful
                      guy, but he's not...everything. I'm sure the
                      novelty will fade, and both of us will laugh
                      about it when it's over. No one gets hurt.
                      That's the best part.

         Dr. Balis:   I hope you're right. Looks like our time is
                      up for today. I'm going to discontinue the
                      Ativan and I'm going to write you a
                      prescription for the Zoloft. Try it for a few
                      weeks and see how you feel. If you have
                      any problems, just give me a call.

      Ms. Wright:     Okay, I'll give it a try. Can we meet the
                      same time next week?

         Dr. Balis:   That'll be fine. Let's see, that's Monday,
                      January 20th.

      Ms. Wright:     Great. I'll see you next week. Goodbye
                      Doc. B.

         Dr. Balis:   Goodbye Sarah.

                                           ###
Arrow, Straight, Left, Earlier




                      Doctor Balis' Notes on this Session




                      Transcripts of Sarah Wright's Communications
                   Sarah Wright's Patient File




TCT Bottom Bar Links to Top of Page


TheTherapist.com. Pipsqueak Productions © 1996. All Rights Reserved.
